# COVID-19_Prognosis_IPDMA
Clinical prediction models for mortality in patients with covid-19: external validation and individual participant data meta-analysis 

## Citation
When using the code in this respository, please cite the paper for which this code has been developed:
* de Jong VMT, Rousset RZ, Antonio-Villa NE, Buenen AG, Calster BV, Bello-Chavolla OY, Brunskill NJ, Curcin V, Damen JAA, Fermín-Martínez CA, Fernández-Chirino L, Ferrari D, Free RC, Gupta RK, Haldar P, Hedberg P, Korang SK, Kurstjens S, Kusters R, Major RW, Maxwell L, Nair R, Naucler P, Nguyen TL, Noursadeghi M, Rosa R, Soares F, Takada T, Royen FS van, Smeden M van, Wynants L, Modrák M, the CovidRetro Collaboration, Asselbergs FW, Linschoten M, Capacity-Covid Consortium, Moons KGM, Debray TPA. Clinical prediction models for mortality in patients with covid-19: external validation and individual participant data meta-analysis. BMJ. 2022 Jul 12;378:e069881. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj-2021-069881

Or the short version:
* de Jong VMT, Rousset RZ, Antonio-Villa NE, Buenen AG, Calster BV, Bello-Chavolla OY, et al. Clinical prediction models for mortality in patients with covid-19: external validation and individual participant data meta-analysis. BMJ. 2022 Jul 12;378:e069881. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj-2021-069881

## Acknowledgements
This study is supported by ReCoDiD (Reconciliation of Cohort data in Infectious Diseases; www.recodid.eu), COVID-PRECISE (Precise Risk Estimation to optimise COVID-19 Care for Infected or Suspected patients in diverse sEttings; www.covprecise.org), and CAPACITY-COVID (capacity-covid.eu). Together we form a large unique group of researchers and medical care providers who are actively involved in data gathering, management, sharing and analysis.

We want to express our gratitude and appreciation to all participating sites and researchers part of the COVID-PRECISE consortium and of the CAPACITY-COVID collaborative consortium. CAPACITY-COVID gratefully acknowledges the following organizations for their assistance in the development of the registry and/or coordination regarding the data registration in the collaborating centres: partners of the Dutch CardioVascular Alliance (DCVA), the Dutch Association of Medical Specialists (FMS), and the British Heart Foundation Centres of Research Excellence. In addition, the consortium is grateful for the endorsement of the CAPACITY-COVID initiative by the European Society of Cardiology (ESC), the European Heart Network (EHN), and the Society for Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance (SCMR). Furthermore, the consortium appreciates the endorsement of CAPACITY-COVID as a flagship research project within the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR)/British Heart Foundation (BHF) Partnership framework for COVID-19 research. 

## Disclaimer
The views expressed in this project are the personal views of the authors and may not be understood or quoted as being made on behalf of or reflecting the position of the regulatory agency/agencies or organizations with which the authors are employed/affiliated.

## Data sharing
The data from Tongji Hospital, China that support the findings of this study are available from https://github.com/HAIRLAB/Pre_Surv_COVID_19. Data collected within CAPACITY-COVID is available on reasonable request, see https://capacity-covid.eu/for-professionals/. The data the CovidRetro study are available on request from Martin Modrák or the secretariat of the Institute of Microbiology of the Czech Academy of Sciences (contact via mbu@biomed.cas.cz) for researchers who meet the criteria for access to confidential data. The data are not publicly available due to privacy restrictions imposed by the Ethical committee of General University Hospital in Prague and the GDPR regulation of the European Union. We will be happy to arrange to run any analytical code locally and share the results, provided the code and the results do not leak personal information. The remaining data that support the findings of this study are not publicly available.

## Funding
This project has received funding from the European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under ReCoDID grant agreement No 825746.
This research was supported by the NIHR Leicester Biomedical Research Centre. Rishi Gupta RKG is supported by the National Institute for Health Research. Mahdad Noursadeghi is supported by the Wellcome Trust (207511/Z/17/Z) and by NIHR Biomedical Research Funding to UCL and UCLH. Martin Modrák is supported by ELIXIR CZ research infrastructure project (MEYS Grant No: LM2018131) including access to computing and storage facilities.
The CAPACITY-COVID registry is supported by the Dutch Heart Foundation (2020B006 CAPACITY), ZonMw (DEFENCE 10430102110006),  the EuroQol Research Foundation, Novartis Global, Sanofi Genzyme Europe, Novo Nordisk Nederland, Servier Nederland, and Daiichi Sankyo Nederland. The Dutch Network for Cardiovascular Research (WCN), a partner within the CAPACITY-COVID consortium, received funding from the Dutch Heart Foundation (2020B006 CAPACITY) for site management and logistic support in the Netherlands.  Marijke Linschoten is supported by the Alexandre Suerman Stipend of the University Medical Center Utrecht. Folkert W. Asselbergs is supported by CardioVasculair Onderzoek Nederland 2015-12 eDETECT and by the National Institute of Health Research (NIHR) University College London Hospitals Biomedical Research Centre.

Laure Wynants and Ben Van Calster are supported by the COPREDICT grant from the University Hospitals KU Leuven, and by Internal Funds KU Leuven (C24M/20/064).

The funders had no role in the study design; in the collection, analysis, and interpretation of data; in the writing of the report; and in the decision to submit the article for publication in the analysis and interpretation of data, in the writing of the report, and in the decision to submit the article for publication. We operated independently from the funders. 
